# Assignment 4: Matching, Simulation, and Plotting

In this assignment you will build up the Gale-Shapely matching algorithm presented in class to be a reusable function and use simulation to investigate its properties.

## Part A: Reusability
1. In a file called `helper.py` write a function called `get_ranks(prefs)` that takes a dictionary of hospital preference lists and returns a dictionary of rank dictionaries. (4 points)

    You can test your function as following:

    ```python
    >>> import helper
    >>> hospital_prefs = prefs = {
    ... 'X': ['B', 'A', 'C'],
    ... 'Y': ['A', 'B', 'C'],
    ... 'Z': ['A', 'B', 'C']
    ... }
    >>> helper.get_ranks(prefs)
    {'Y': {'A': 1, 'C': 3, 'B': 2}, 'X': {'A': 2, 'C': 3, 'B': 1}, 'Z': {'A': 1, 'C': 3, 'B': 2}}
    ```
    (Remember that dictionaries are unordered so the order of your output may differ.)
    
2. In `helper.py` write a function `match(hospital_prefs, student_prefs, students)` that returns a stable match dictionary. (4 points)

    The included `test_match.py` tests your `match()` function using the same example from class. You can run it at the command line using `$ python test_match.py`.

    Hint: take the code included `lecture_example.py` and remove the hard-coded data (students, hospitals, student_prefs, hospital_prefs, hospital_ranks). Call your `get_ranks` function to create the `hospital_ranks` dictionary. Return the resulting match instead of printing it.
    
3. Add code to `match.py` to validate `student_prefs`, `hospital_prefs`, and `students` have the following properties:

    - The sudents specified in `students` are the same as those in `student_prefs`.
    - The number of students and hospitals are the same
    - Each preference list (both student and hospital) is the right length
    - Each student preference list contains all hospitals
    - Each hospital preference list contains all students
    
    If any of these conditions is false raise a `ValueError` with an informative message.
    
## Part B: Simulation

1. Write a function `generate_preferences(n)` in `helper.py` that generates a preference dictionary of length `n` where the keys are the numbers `0` to `n` and the values are i.i.d. random preferences. (4 points)

  The included `test_match_random.py` runs `match()` with random preferences generated by your `random_preferences()` function. You can run it at the command line using `$ python test_match_random.py`.

  Hint: use `range(n)` to iterate and use `list(np.random.permutation(n))` to generate a random preference list.

2. Write a function `get_hospital_match_ranks(M, hospital_prefs)` that, given a matching `M` and hospital preferences dictionary `hospital_prefs` returns a dictionary whose keys are hospitals and values are the rank of the hospital's match.

    For example, you can test your function in the `n=3` example from class as follows:
   
    ```python
    >>> import helper
    >>> helper.get_hospital_match_ranks({'Y': 'B', 'X': 'A', 'Z': 'C'},
                                        {'X': ['B', 'A', 'C'],
                                         'Y': ['A', 'B', 'C'],
                                         'Z': ['A', 'B', 'C']})
    {'Y': 2, 'X': 2, 'Z': 3}
    ```
